Reducers became *"famous"* (at least for me) with the [[Redux]] library because help you to manage big chucks of states of your app.

The same is happening with Hooks.

Most of the time we work well with state handled by [[React.useState()|useState]] but this is forcing us to keep it **inside our component** and make it difficult to pass these data to a different component that could use the values stored inside.

To store the state inside a single object that we can pass around our application we use the [[React.useReducer()|useReducer]] Hook. In it simplest we use like below:
```js
function nameReducer(previousName, newName) {
  return newName
}

const initialNameValue = 'Joe'

function NameInput() {
  const [name, setName] = React.useReducer(nameReducer, initialNameValue)
  const handleChange = event => setName(event.target.value)
  return (
    <>
      <label>
        Name: <input defaultValue={name} onChange={handleChange} />
      </label>
      <div>You typed: {name}</div>
    </>
  )
}
```
One important thing to note is that `nameReducer` is called with two arguments:

1. the current state/*store*
2. whatever the dispatch fn `setName` is called with. This is often called an *"action"*.

Store and Action are two important concept of [[Redux]], that important that the same React is using the same logic to help us handle our (global) state.
## Exercise
We're implementing a Counter and starts with the component that already works with [[React.useState()|useState]], we need to change the logic to implement the same but with ([[React.useReducer()|useReducer]]). 
#### `useState` implementation
```js
function countReducer(state, newState) {
	return newState;
}

function Counter({initialCount = 0, step = 1}) {
  const [count, setCount] = React.useState(initialCount)
  const increment = () => setCount(count + step)
  return <button onClick={increment}>{count}</button>
}

function App() {
  return <Counter />
}

export default App
```
#### `useReducer` implementation
```js
function countReducer(state, newState) {
	return newState;
}

function Counter({initialCount = 0, step = 1}) {
  const [count, setCount] = React.useReducer(countReducer, initialCount)
  const increment = () => setCount(count + step)
  return <button onClick={increment}>{count}</button>
}

function App() {
  return <Counter />
}

export default App
```
This example is really simple and use [[React.useReducer()|useReducer]] is an overkill but we need to start somewhere.
## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 accept the step as the action
We need to implement a little change in our reducer. Now the API does not pass anymore the current state value (the `store` if you like [[Redux]]) and the value we need to update the state to, now we pass only the `step` representing the amount that we need to update the state to.
```js
const [count, changeCount] = React.useReducer(countReducer, initialCount);
const increment = () => changeCount(step)
```
Now we do not pass anymore the updated value for our `count` state, we only pass the amount we want it to increment.

Luckly for us we can use the value that we keep in the reducer as the first parameter and we can change it to respect our different API:
```js
function countReducer(count, step) {
	return count + step;
}
```
Since we returning right away the value we can leverage [[arrow function]] syntax:
```js
const countReducer = (count, step) => count + step;
```

### 2. 💯 simulate setState with an object
Now it is time to simulate how the old [[this.setState()|setState]] with the class syntax was working before the advent of Hooks. If you need a refresher here you find the most important part, if you need more check the linked doc.

`setState` in a class component was very useful because let us **update only portion of the state**, this means that we could have really complex object representing the state of the component but the update function, the `this.setState()` was really simple to style.
```js
class MyComponent extends React.Component{
	constructor(props){
		super(props);
		// Defining the state for the component
		this.state = {
			complex: 'object',
			isComplex: true,
		}
	}

	// Pseudo code
	
	// Changing complex
	this.setState({ complex: 'not true' });
	// State is now { complex: 'not true, isComplex: true }
	
	// Changing isComplex
	this.setState({ isComplex: false });
	// State is now { complex: 'not true, isComplex: false }
}
```
As you can see from the example the great thing about `this.setState` was that with it was possible update parts of the state without the need to handle the presence of properties of the object that were not handled by the update fn.

In order to behave like so I set my `counterReducer` as follows:
```js
function countReducer(state, newState) {
	return {
		...state,
		...newState
	};
}
```
Basically I am using the [[spread operator]] to "expand" the current state and let the spread of `newState` override only the properties that contains.

### 3. 💯 simulate setState with an object OR function
Now we want to make a little edit on how we send the new data, we want the `this.setState` fn to accept a function that will be in charge of updating the object.

This is the basic code that we can work with:
```js
const [state, setState] = React.useReducer(countReducer, {
	count: initialCount,
})
const {count} = state
const increment = () =>
setState(currentState => ({count: currentState.count + step}))
```
As you can see `setState` now accept an [[arrow function]] that will call the `currentState` value and will update the specific values stored in the object properties.

So our function in `setState` needs to access to the state current value. 

If we want to accept **only** functions to update our state we could change our `countReducer` like so:
```js
const countReducer = (state, action) => action(state);
```
But we want to support both API. The one that let us update the state passing an object and the one that let us the same by passing a function.

All we need to do different by previous implementation is to check if the passed `action` is a fn or not and spread the right value:
```js
const countReducer = (state, action) => ( {
	...state,
	...(typeof action === 'function' ? action(state) : action )
} );
```
Maybe you're a bit confused from this, at least I was the first time I encounter this syntax.

After the [[spread operator]] we run an expression ([[ternary operators]] are seen like expressions), if `action` is a function we call it with the current state and then we spread the returned value but if it is not we just spread the `action` as is.

I am sure we will get more confident with this syntax but to be clear is just JavaScript, React here does not get involved.

### 4. 💯 traditional dispatch object with a type and switch statement
Now we get more close to the [[Redux]] way of doing things, our `action` becomes an object that will have a `type` property that will be checked by an `switch` statement to let the reducer decide how to behave.

Our starting point now is this:
```js
const [state, dispatch] = React.useReducer(countReducer, {
  count: initialCount,
})
const {count} = state
const increment = () => dispatch({type: 'INCREMENT', step})
```
As you can see now we have a `dispatch` fn that is creating the action object for us, now it is time to change our reducer to accept it.
```js
function countReducer( state, action ){
	switch (action.type) {
		case "INCREMENT":
			return { count: state.count + action.step }
		default:
			throw new Error(`Unsupported action type: ${action.type}`)
	}
}
```
In the `default` we follow Kent's advice and throw an error in case that the `type` is not treated by our reducer.