It's time to dig deeper in the [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]] Hook. In the previous lessons ([[2. useEffect 'persistent state'|this]] and [[6. useEffect HTTP requests|this]]) we discovered the `useEffect` Hook and how we can keep it in sync with the state of the app without let it run every time.

To handle the *'runs'* of `useEffect` we have to pass to it an array that will holds all the values that, if changed, will require the Hook to run. It is common to put data in there but in some cases we could call an external function inside our Hook and the things here get's a bit complicated.
```js
const updateLocalStorage = () => window.localStorage.setItem('count', count)
React.useEffect(() => {
  updateLocalStorage()
}, [])
```
As this Hook has been written it'll run only once after the render of the component. This is **not a good solution** because if our `count` changes during the life of our component we will never save it to [[localStorage]].

We can think of passing the `count` variable as a dependency of our [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]] but what happen if the function changes?
```js
const updateLocalStorage = () => window.localStorage.setItem(key, count)
```
Well we should update the dependency array too... **No good** because this will get complicated over time.

We can think to **add the same function** to the dependency array/list **but** even in this case it would be a bad idea because:
> The function is defined **inside the component function** and for this reason at each render we will have a brand new function. It gets declared one more time.

For this reason we can not put our function inside the dependency array, at each render React will see a **new function** and our `useEffect` Hook will be called each time.

But problem persists. We have a `useEffect` Hook and we want it to run only when needed.

**`useCallback` to the rescue!!**
React gives us this Hook that will help us use a function, declared inside the component function, as a dependency of our `useEffect`.

[[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] Hook has been created solely to be able to create a [[memoize|memoized]] version of a function.
```js
const updateLocalStorage = React.useCallback(
  () => window.localStorage.setItem('count', count),
  [count], // dependency array
)

React.useEffect(() => {
  updateLocalStorage()
}, 
[updateLocalStorage] // Now I can use it, has been memoized
)
```
When we want to use [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] Hook the syntax is pretty similar to `useEffect` but in this case we are not *running* the function contained, we [[memoize]] it so we can use it as a dependency of the `useEffect`.

# Exercise
In the first iteration of the exercise we need to transform the standard use of [[React.useReducer()|useReducer]] and make a custom hook that will handle the async calls, `useAsync`.

> When we import something with the `import` keyword at the top of the file, as happen for the `fetchPokemon` async fn, we do not need to worry about the dependency list in our `useReducer` because something that has been imported via module **can never change** and this React knows pretty well.

Before digging deep inside the `useAsync` fn (a [[custom Hook]] to be precise) we need to understand **why** we should not use a fn as a parameter in our dependency list.

```js
function PokemonInfo({pokemonName}) {
  const state = useAsync(
    () => {
 		// this is the asyncCallback
    },
	// more code...
  )
  // rest of component...
```
In this little small snippet of code you see that I define the `asyncCallback` right inside the component. This makes a **new declaration of my fn** at each render because React does not know that it already met the function before.

In order to solve this we can leverage the [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] Hook but this is for the next extra credit...

Now we want/need to solve this situation with a different approach, we need to pass values inside our dependency list. The quick solution is to pass an additional parameter `dependencies` that'll be the array containing all the deps for our [[custom Hook]].
```js
function useAsync(asyncCallback, initialState, dependencies) {
  const [state, dispatch] = React.useReducer(asyncReducer, {
    status: 'idle',
    data: null,
    error: null,
    ...initialState,
  })

  React.useEffect(() => {
    const promise = asyncCallback()
    if (!promise) {
      return
    }
    dispatch({type: 'pending'})
    promise.then(
      data => {
        dispatch({type: 'resolved', data})
      },
      error => {
        dispatch({type: 'rejected', error})
      },
    )
    // too bad the eslint plugin can't statically analyze this :-(
    // eslint-disable-next-line react-hooks/exhaustive-deps
  }, dependencies)

  return state
}
```
As you can see there's nothing special in our `useAsync` custom Hook, we use [[React.useReducer()|useReducer]] to manage the state and inside the [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]] we handle the state changes based on the promise that is returned from the `asyncCallback` fn.
## Extra credit
### 1. 💯 use [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] to empower the user to customize memoization
Basically all we want is to transform the `asyncCallback` into a [[memoize|memoized]] fn so we can use it as a dependency of our `useEffect` inside the custom Hook and get rid of the `dependencies` array that could not always be the best solution.

In order to do so we need to use the [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] Hook and pass into it the function defined while using `useAsync`:
```js
// Previous usage of useAsync
const state = useAsync(
	() => {
		if (!pokemonName) {
			return
		}
		return fetchPokemon(pokemonName)
	},
	{status: pokemonName ? 'pending' : 'idle'},
	[pokemonName],
)

// New approach with useCallback
// Before I memoize the fn with useCallback()
const asyncCallback = React.useCallback( () => {
	if (!pokemonName) {
		return
	}
	return fetchPokemon(pokemonName)
}, [pokemonName] ) // <- useCallback() has a dependency list too
// Then I use it while calling my custom component
const state = useAsync(
	asyncCallback,
	{status: pokemonName ? 'pending' : 'idle'},
)
```
As you can see as well this it wasn't that difficult 😉
### 2. 💯 return a memoized `run` function from useAsync
We're asking a lot from users of our Hook, we're asking them to read the documentation and remember that we need them to pass a memoized fn.

This exercise aims to solve that in order to provide a `run` fn that will [[memoize]], in our case, the `fetchPokemon` call.

In order to do so we need to change things a bit, first and foremost our component will not accept an `asyncCallback` (because now it's time for us to create it) and we need to provide our `run` fn from the Hook. This is how users of our hook will use it:
```js
const {data: pokemon, status, error, run} = useAsync({
	status: pokemonName ? 'pending' : 'idle',
})

React.useEffect(() => {
	if (!pokemonName) {
		return
	}
	run(fetchPokemon(pokemonName))
}, [pokemonName, run])
```
Now it's time to transform our `useAsync` by removing the `asyncCallbar` first parameter and create the `run` fn.

Since now we also have the `promise` that returns the `fetchPokemon` fn right inside the custom hook we can get rid of the [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]] because it first duty was to check that we did have a promise, a little thing that our user now can take care of since this are his data from the component.

So the "only thing" that our `run` function will be responsible of will be to update the state that will be returned to the component.
```js
const run = React.useCallback(promise => {
	dispatch({type: 'pending'})
	promise.then(
		data => {
			dispatch({type: 'resolved', data})
		},
		error => {
			dispatch({type: 'rejected', error})
		},
	)
}, [])
```
As you can see we do not need to add anything in the `run` fn because all the data that we uses, the `promise` that's a parameter and the `dispatch` fn will never change inside our custom Hook.

One last thing that got me confused was: *How do I return the fn if not inside the state?* Well thankfully we can spread the state object and add it back to it:
```js
return { ...state, run }
```
> *Note:* we could also have declared the `run` fn right inside our state declaration but following Kent's code seems a bit cleaner this way.

### 3. 💯 make safeDispatch with useCallback, useRef, and useEffect
With this exercise we aim to handle the situations where we are waiting for a response (or a complex calculation) but once the operation finishes the component got unmounted and React will throw this warning:

*Warning: Can't perform a React state update on an unmounted component. This is a no-op, but it indicates a memory leak in your application. To fix, cancel all subscriptions and asynchronous tasks in a useEffect cleanup function.*

In order to solve this issue we have to create a [[useRef]] that will track if the component is mounted or not, based on this information we can wrap the dispatch function so we can make use of the [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] to make things even safer.

This is the code example of above generalized in a custom Hook `useSafeDispatch`:
```js
function useSafeDispatch(dispatch) {
  const mountedRef = React.useRef(false)

  React.useEffect(() => {
    mountedRef.current = true
    return () => (mountedRef.current = false)
  }, [])

  return React.useCallback(
    (...args) => (mountedRef.current ? dispatch(...args) : void 0),
    [dispatch],
  )
}
```

---

#### Notes on memoization
> Taken in part from the [linked article](https://epicreact.dev/memoization-and-react/).

React gives us 3 option to [[memoize]] something but one of the first things to understand is that the cache strategy implemented has a size of 1, meaning that only the most recent value of input and result will be kept.

Does not matter which API we use, if we use [[memo]], [[React.useMemo()|useMemo]] or [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]], we memoize something in React because:
* we need to improve performances by not running same fn, with same arguments, between renders
* value stability

The first point is enough self-explanatory so let dig deeper in the second one.

As explained earlier while describing the `updateLocalStorage` fn, if we use a fn that is declared **inside** our component this fn will get declared each time our component renders, this means that we will have a *'new'* `updateLocalStorage` at each render.

If we need to use a fn in a dependency list/array then **we need to memoize it** and since we're talking about fn we will do so with the [[React.useCallback()|useCallback]] Hook.


