In order to style a React component we can use [[inline styles]] or [[JavaScript/classNames]]. While using the inline styles is not the preferred way when you need to do so there is a little difference from common HTML.
In HTML to define some stiles for an element you write something like this:
```html
<div style="font-size: 12px; background-color: lightblue"></div>
```
Basically inside the HTML attribute `style` we write CSS rules like in a normal `.css` file.

In JSX though we need to change a bit our syntax and pass an *CSSStyleDeclaration* object that defines the CSS props in a different way:
```jsx
<div style={{ fontSize: '12px', backgroundColor: 'lightblue'}} />
```
Following the common JS best practices each property that in CSS uses an hyphen  in this case is written in camelCase.

*Also note that in JSX we can self-close any DOM element if it does not contain any children.*

## Appying styles with a custom component
Sometimes is useful create a custom component to apply some default styles and rules in order to save ourself from repeat the same code, for example in the following example all the elements share the `box` class and the `font-style` CSS property:
```jsx
const smallBox = <div 
	className='box box--small' 
	style={{ backgroundColor: 'lightblue'; fontStyle: 'italic' }}
>
	small lightblue box
</div>
const mediumBox = <div 
	className='box box--medium' 
	style={{ backgroundColor: 'pink'; fontStyle: 'italic' }}
>
	medium pink box
</div>
const largeBox = <div 
	className='box box--large' 
	style={{ backgroundColor: 'orange'; fontStyle: 'italic' }}
>
	large orange box
</div>
```
In this case create a custom `Box` component seems legit since will let us save a lot of repetition **but** in order to do so we need to properly use the [[spread operator]] because if not used properly we could run into troubles.

For example, in the following snippet the [[spread operator]] operator]] is used in the wrong way. Can you see why?
```jsx
function Box(props){
	return <div className='box' style={{fontStyle: 'italic'}} {...props} />
}

// Example Box in use
<Box className='box--small' style={{backgroundColor='lightblue'}}>
	small lightblue box
</Box>
```
Basically when we use the component and set the `className` and `style` props (toghether with the `children`) with the [[spread operator]] that we uses while declaring the custom component we are **overriding** those props with the ones that we pass. The resulting HTML element will be:
```html
<div class="box--small" style="backgroud-color: lightblue">
	small lightblue box
</div>
```
This **is not** the result we are aiming to. Let's improve it using the [[rest operator]]:
```jsx
function Box({className = '', style, ...otherProps}){
	return <div 
		className={`box ${className}`} 
		style={{ fontStyle: 'italic', ...style}} 
		{...otherProps} 
	/>
}
```
Now we [[destruct]]struct]] the props that our custom component passes in the implementation but also we **add** (not override) the `className` and `style` values without removing their default ones.

We then use the [[rest operator]] `...otherProps` to collect the remaining props passed and use them inside the component with the [[spread operator]].

**Some things worth noticing:**
* [[rest operator]] and [[spread operator]] are different - the first is used in the declaration phase of the function (can be used while we [[destruct]] an object) and **collects** all the props that we do not destruct and the second one help us expanding those props while invoke it
* while deconstructoring the props the `className` gets a default value of *empty string* because if in the implementation we will not declare it, since we are using a [[template literal]], we will get `undefined`
* `style` does not need a default value because we use a the [[spread operator]] to insert all the customization that our user can add in the implementation
* **sometimes the order is important** others not - while using the [[template literal]] the order of the classes is not important because they both gets added (also it is the CSS that will apply those styles). Instead in `style` the order is really important because if the user passes a prop to replace the default style declared we need to let him override it, and this means put the [[spread operator]] at the end of our *CSSStyleDeclaration* object

## Apply styles with a custom prop
Making a component accepting a prop to set the size of our component is pretty easy. In the implementation of the component all that we need to do is to add a `size` prop and we can pass to it the size that we are looking for.

So the developer that uses our components, instead to specify the `className` and let them add the CSS class by hand all they need to do is spedify the size like so:
```js
<Box size="small" style={{backgroundColor: 'lightblue'}}>
	small lightblue box
</Box>
```
But React does not do it by magic, we need to use the value passed in `size` in order to create the CSS class:
```js
function Box({style, size, className = '', ...otherProps}) {
  const sizeClassName = size ? `box--${size}` : ''
  return (
    <div
      className={`box ${className} ${sizeClassName}`}
      // Removed unused stuff for this example
    />
  )
}
```
In this way we still accept a `className` prop so users of our component are still able to add as many classes as they want but the important thing is that we are the one creating the CSS class for the size of our box in `sizeClassName` and we pass the string created as a class of our element.