One of the most used side effect on any app, at least nowadays, is making HTTP requests. Generally with an HTTP request we make a request to an API, we wait for the response of the server and once got it we display the data. This is no different from the side-effects we need to apply to a [[5. useRef and useEffect DOM interaction|rendered DOM]] or when interacting with [[2. useEffect 'persistent state'|browser APIs like localStorage]].

The exercise require us to make an HTTP request to a Pokemon API and show the information we get from the server response. To treat this as a side effect we use [[React.useEffect()#Make an HTTP request|useEffect]] that will help use make the request and update the state with the correct information.

The funny thing about making HTTP requests within [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]] is that we cannot use the [[async/await syntax]] as we can think. Write something like:
```js
React.useEffect(async () => {
  const result = await doSomeAsyncThing()
  // do something with the result
})
```
Is an error because when we make a function [[async/await syntax|async]] this returns a [[Promise]] and does not allow us to write the cleanup function. So if we want to use the [[async/await syntax]] we need to do a little workaround:
```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  async function effect() {
    const result = await doSomeAsyncThing()
    // do something with the result
  }
  effect()
})
```
Basically we need to create a named function an then execute it after the declaration, this ensures that you don’t return anything but a cleanup function if present.

If we do not want to write this kind of syntax we could always create an utility function, like `fetchPokemon` from the exercise and then call it inside our [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]].
```js
// Utility fn saved or written separately
function fetchPokemon(name, delay = 1500) {
	const pokemonQuery = ``

	return window
		.fetch('path')
		.then(async response => {
			const {data} = await response.json()
			if (response.ok) {
				const pokemon = data?.pokemon
				if (pokemon) {
					return pokemon
				} else {
					return Promise.reject(new Error(`No pokemon with the name "${name}"`))
				}
			} else {
				// handle errors
				return Promise.reject(error)
			}
		})
}

// Using the utility fn inside our useEffect
React.useEffect( () => {
	fetchPokemon(pokemonName).then( () => {
		// Do stuff with the response
	})
}, [pokemon])
```

### Extra credit 1: handling errors
Since we're using a [[Promise]] here we are always able to set a callback for the success of our request and on on error. We already created the one for success that sets our pokemon
```js
fetchPokemon(pokemonName).then(pokemon => setPokemon(pokemon))
```
But now it's time to manage also the error, that in this case is generally the response that hasn't been found a pokemon at all. So we need to create a new piece of state that will store the error (so we fire a new re-render) and will use the updater function to save the message of the error.
```js
const [error, setError] = React.useState(null)

// Other stuff...
React.useEffect(() => {
	if (!pokemonName) {
		return
	}
	// We reset the pokemon and the error at each fetch
	setPokemon(null)
	setError(null)
	fetchPokemon(pokemonName).then(
		pokemon => setPokemon(pokemon),
		error => setError(error), // We set the error and will display it on our UI
	)
}, [pokemonName])
```
### Extra credit 2 - use a status
In this case the example of a status is really close at what a [[state machine]] is. A state machine describes any kind of state/status our app can be. For example for a simple "fetching app" like this one statuses can be:
* idle
* pending
* resolved
* error

Based on this knowledge we can write the logic necessary to update our app at any point without encounter nasty problems that we could face if we were relying just on a boolean or on the status of different variables.

```js
const [status, setStatus] = React.useState('idle');
 
...

React.useEffect(() => {
	...
	setStatus('pending'); // Changing the status when making the call
	fetchPokemon(pokemonName).then(
		// In case of success
		pokemon => {
			setPokemon(pokemon);
			setStatus('resolved'); // Changing the status in case of success
		},
		// In case of error
		error => {
			setError(error);
			setStatus('error'); // Changing the status in case of error
		}
	)
}, [pokemonName])

switch(status){
	case 'idle':
		// Waiting some input
	case 'pending':
		// Making the request
	case 'resolved':
		// Request succesfull
	case 'error':
		// Error in request
	default:
		throw new Error('This should be impossible')
}
```
As we can see now our logic depend solely on the value of `status` and it make a lot clearer how the app is responding based on it.
### Extra credit 3 - store the state in an object
No notes because in future we will use [[React/useReducer()|useReducer]].
### Extra credit 4 - create an ErrorBoundary component
`ErrorBoundary` components must be class based component, this is the **only time** where in React is requested this kind of structure (at least until now Oct 2020).

The component will be wrapping the other where we want to catch those errors, in our exercise it was the `PokemonInfo` because at the beginning if we submitted and empty string the page went blank.

The `ErrorBoundary` component does not have anything special in its `render` method, we just pass the `children` prop, but in the body you'll find the declaration of the method `getDerivedStateFromError` that returns an object that will be pushed to the state of the component.
```js
class ErrorBoundary extends React.Component{
	state = {error: null}
  static getDerivedStateFromError(error) {
    return {error}
  }
	render(){
		return this.props.children;
	}
}
```
There is one last piece that we need to manage and it is the case of **what do we render in case of the component**? 

As for now we still render the `children` but in order to manage the error we need to check for it inside the `render` method and output something more useful if there is one.
```js
render(){
	const {error} = this.state;
	if(error){
		return (
			<div role="alert">
				There was an error:{' '}
				<pre style={{whiteSpace: 'normal'}}>{error.message}</pre>
			</div>
		)
	}
	return this.props.children;
}
```
Now our `ErrorBoundary` has all the structure needed and we can modify the logic inside our component to just throw an error in case we need to. So from this:
```js
case 'rejected':
	return (
		<div role="alert">
			There was an error: <pre style={{whiteSpace: 'normal'}}>{error.message}</pre>
		</div>
	);
```
We change into this:
```js
case 'rejected':
	throw error;
```
The position of our `ErrorBoundary` component it is important because if an error is thrown it will be reflected into our app, this means that is I put the component at the root of my application and we got an error **the whole application** will be replaced by the error.
### Extra credit 5 - re-mount the error boundary
The solution implemented in the previous exercise has broken our app, even if it handles the error correctly 😃

The reason is that we're not reset the state for `ErrorBoundary` and even if we pass a new value that needed to be evaluated the component does not allow us to render its children: aka the `PokemonInfo` component.

In order to solve this in we have many solution, with this particular example we're going to use the `key` prop to force the mount and unmount of our `ErrorBoundary` component.
```js
<ErrorBoundary key={pokemonName} FallbackComponent={ErrorFallback}>
```
Since we already have a value that we will re-render of our app we use the `pokemonName` as key for the `ErrorBoundary` component so each time it's changes we will unmount and mount the component because from the React point of view they are different components because have different `key` properties.
### Extra credit 6 - use react-error-boundary
This is easy, in order to not have to write a class component we could install the `react-error-boundary` npm package and use it in place of our `ErrorBoundary` component. The API are the same so we just need to import it and we're good to go.
```js
// Install it first with 'npm install react-error-boundary'
import {ErrorBoundary} from 'react-error-boundary'
```
### Extra credit 7 - reset the error boundary
The quick solution of adding a `key` to our `ErrorBoundary` component is however no good because each time it changes we will unmount even the children components and this is something that we need to worry about.

Go and check the solution in the video 😉  It's just how to use the API of the new `ErrorBoundary` component that will let us create a button to reset it.

Here's the full code:
```js
function ErrorFallback({error, resetErrorBoundary}) {
  return (
    <div role="alert">
      There was an error:{' '}
      <pre style={{whiteSpace: 'normal'}}>{error.message}</pre>
      <button onClick={resetErrorBoundary}>Try again</button>
    </div>
  )
}

function App() {
  const [pokemonName, setPokemonName] = React.useState('')

  function handleSubmit(newPokemonName) {
    setPokemonName(newPokemonName)
  }

  function handleReset() {
    setPokemonName('')
  }

  return (
    <div className="pokemon-info-app">
      <PokemonForm pokemonName={pokemonName} onSubmit={handleSubmit} />
      <hr />
      <div className="pokemon-info">
        <ErrorBoundary FallbackComponent={ErrorFallback} onReset={handleReset}>
          <PokemonInfo pokemonName={pokemonName} />
        </ErrorBoundary>
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}
```
Notice how we use `resetErrorBooundary` (we didn't create the fn, it's part of the component API) to create a button that resets that component state and how we use the `handleReset` fn to set `pokemonName` to empty and give to the user of our app a way to do a new search.

Also notice that we solved a different minor problem in the initialization of the state of `PokemonInfo`, go to the video for the details:
```js
const [state, setState] = React.useState({
	status: pokemonName ? 'pending' : 'idle',
```
### Extra credit 8 - use resetKeys
This video explain the `resetKeys` prop of `ErrorBoundary` component that will accept an array of values that once change it will reset the component automatically, so in our case we only need to add the `pokemonName` in it and it will reset.
```js
<ErrorBoundary
	FallbackComponent={ErrorFallback}
	onReset={handleReset}
	resetKeys={[pokemonName]}
>
```