This kind of approach help us to ship components that are easier to use for the end user. 
Generally our custom hooks or components have many properties that need to be set in order to make it work as expected.
# Exercise
In our exercise we have the `useToggle` [[custom Hook]] that helps us to set up our `Switch` component. instead to pass the state value and the fn that updates the state we build a new object `togglerProps` that is configured in a way that let's our user do not think about of the implementation of our custom hook.

Basically instead of force our user to create a `Switch` component that looks like the following:
```jsx
<Switch on={on} aria-pressed={on} onClick={setOn} />
```
We are able to make this a lot simpler letting the end user just spread all the properties that we have prepared in our custom hook:
```jsx
<Switch on={on} {...togglerProps} />
```
This is possible because in our `useToggle` custom hook we defined the `return` elements like so:
```js
function useToggle() {
  const [on, setOn] = React.useState(false)
  const toggle = () => setOn(!on)
	const togglerProps = {
		'aria-pressed': on,
		onClick: toggle
	}

  return {on, toggle, togglerProps}
}
```
`useToggle` now is not only able to handle the state and to switch the `on` prop from `false` to `true`, but it can also handle the accessibility **and** the `onClick` event.

In this way our user just have to extract those value with a simple [[destructuring]]:
```js
const [on, togglerProps] = useToggle();
```
## Extra credit
### 1. 💯 prop getters
This has been really fun to discover and from Kent's word it should be the **preferred approach** to pass props.

The base idea is to create a function that will get called with an objects that contains the props that I want to apply. Use a function instead of a collection will help us handling the cases where user want to fire something during an event that we are already handling. The collection will override our event while the getter can fire all the functions we attach to it.

This is how our end user could try to use our props based on our previous implementation:
```jsx
<button
	{...togglerProps}	
	'aria-label': "custom-button",
	onClick: () => console.info('onButtonClick')
>
	{on ? 'on' : 'off'}
</button>
```

But this is no good because our user is overriding the `onClick` fn with his own.

So the first thing we need to do is to create our `getTogglerProps` fn and return it from our custom hook:
```js
function getTogglerProps(props){
	return {
		'aria-pressed': on,
		onClick: toggle,
		...props,
	}
}
// return inside the useToggle custom hook
return {
	on, 
	toggle, 
	getTogglerProps
}
```
Even if seems to work in this way, if our end user will pass an `onClick` handler we will **override** the one that handles the toggle all together. We need to **compose** the `toggle` fn and the one that our end user is passing. 

```js
function getTogglerProps({onClick, ...props} = {}) {
	return {
		'aria-pressed': on,
		onClick: () => {
			onClick?.();
			toggle();
		},
		...props,
	}
}
```
And now if the user is passing a fn to handle the `onClick` evt we can fire both fns without any issues.

A minor improvement is suggested in how we compose those fns. Instead to compose them manually any time we can create an utility fn, that can live in your `utility/` folder 😉  And use it to compose all the fns we need:
```js
function callAll(...fns){
	return (...args) => {
		fns.forEach( fn => {
			fn && fn(...args)
		})
	}
}
```
This fn takes any number of fns with any number of arguments and, if each fn exists, it will call them separately passing the arguments. 
> If you want to dig deeper in this kind of field and learn even more about composition I cannot advice enough the amazing course [Composing Closures and Callbacks in JavaScript](https://egghead.io/playlists/composing-closures-and-callbacks-in-javascript-1223) by the great John Lindquist.



