This concept comes right from the [controlled components](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html#controlled-components) from React. Basically when we use an `input`, `textarea` or a `select` element within React the library gives us the ability to handle the current state (the value) of that specific element.

Beside the state itself we are also able to **listen** for the changes, generally with the `onChange` prop, and React will pass to us all the information that thinks are important to update our state.

# Exercise
The first step of this lesson is to make the controlled components working in sync, this means that to make it work we have to pass the value for the state as a prop in our component.

At the same time, since we want to make our component as flexible as possible, we have to make the component controlled **only if** the end user is passing the `on` prop. 

In order to do so we need to change a bid the declaration of `useToggle` and let it accept an `onChage` and `on` attribute as well.

```js
function useToggle({
  initialOn = false,
  reducer = toggleReducer,
  onChange,
  on: controlledOn, // Making alias 'cuz on is used later
} = {}) {
```
At this point the user *could* pass the `on` attribute, so we need to check if it is present and decide if we want to handle state internally (with [[React.useState()]]) or if we want to let the end user handle it with the `onChange` prop.

To do so we need to change our component from this:
```js
const { on } = state
```
Into this:
```js
const onIsControlled = controlledOn != null;
const on = onIsControlled ? controlledOn : state.on;
```
Basically we check if end user is passing `on` with `onIsControlled` and based on that we chose to set our internal state with `controlledOn` (passed as prop) or to get it straight from our `state`.

Now that our state value is handled we need to decide how we will manage the change of it. If state was internal we just had to call our `dispatch` (we are using [[React.useReducer()]] here) and that was it but we want to allow the end user to pass a function that will handle the update of the state externally with `onChange`.

Checking how our end user is using our `<Toggle />` we see that he made the `handleToggleChange` fn:
```jsx
function handleToggleChange(state, action) {
	if (action.type === actionTypes.toggle && timesClicked > 4) {
		return
	}
	setBothOn(state.on)
	setTimesClicked(c => c + 1)
}

<Toggle on={bothOn} onChange={handleToggleChange} />
```
`setBothOn` and `setTimesClicked` are just the updater fns for our `useState` hook but as you can see the `handleToggleChange` is expecting a `state` and an `action` so we need to provide them when we call `onChange` from our `useToggle` custom hook.

So, again, we need to handle the situation where our component is controlled or not. In order to do so we need to change how we dispatch our changes with a new fn `dispatchWithOnChange`:
```js
function dispatchWithOnChange(action){
	if( !onIsControlled ){
		dispatch( action );
	}
	onChange?.( reducer( {...state, on}, action ), action )
}

// We also changed the standard dispatch to toggle and reset
const toggle = () => dispatchWithOnChange({type: actionTypes.toggle})
const reset = () => dispatchWithOnChange({type: actionTypes.reset, initialState})
```
Now we `dispatch` with `useReducer` only if our component is not controlled because if it is we call `onChange` if it is defined.

Since our `onChange` is expecting to have the updated state to work with we can pass it using our internal `reducer` that is able to update its value and sending it back to the `handleToggleChange` that it is attached to it. 

## Extra Credit
### 1. 💯 add read only warning
For standard controlled `input` React throw a warning if we provide a `value` prop but no `onChange`, we want to implement the same behavior in our component when a user is providing an `on` prop but no way to update its value.

To get this result the first thing we can do is introduce a new variable `hasOnChange`:
```js
const hasOnChange = Boolean(onChange);
```
In this snippet we use `Boolean` but in this case we could get the same result with `!!onChange`.

Now that we know if our component has the `onChange` prop passed to it we can just [[React.useEffect()|useEffect]] it and show an error:
```js
React.useEffect(() => {
	if(!hasOnChange && onIsControlled && !readOnly){
		console.error('You provided an "on" prop but no "onChange"')
	}
}, [hasOnChange, onIsControlled, readOnly])
```
Here the dependency array of `useEffect` is populated with the new prop `readOnly` that we add to our API to give the ability to our end user to say *"I just want to use this component with `on` but without `onChange`."*

In the video Kent show us a useful [warning](https://www.npmjs.com/package/warning) NPM package that is used in React to handle this kind of scenario. The API is pretty simple and allows you to add a message in case the first parameter that you pass is `false`.
```js
import warning from 'warning';

warning(
  fireIsFalse,
  'You read me if fireIsFalse is, actually, false.'
)
```
### 2. 💯 add a controlled state warning
Now that we are able to handle the presence of `onChange` is a nice addition to handle the switch of a component between controlled and uncontrolled.

The first thing we take care of is the one where we switch from uncontrolled to controlled. We can do this initializing the `on` state to `undefined` like so:
```js
const [bothOn, setBothOn] = React.useState()
```
Later in our `Toggle` component we set the `on` value with `onChange` and this will transform it from an uncontrolled to a controlled component.

To handle this we have to `useEffect` and track if the component was already controlled with [[React.useRef()|useRef]]:
```js
const { current: onWasControlled } = React.useRef(onIsControlled);
```
The ref `onWasControlled` now tracks if previously our component was controlled or not so we can add it to our `useEffect` an fire a `warning` in case the condition is false:
```js
React.useEffect( () => {
	warning(
		!(onIsControlled && !onWasControlled),
		'Changing from uncontrolled to controlled'
	);
}, [onIsControlled, onWasControlled])
```
Now we handle the first part of the exercise, we know if a component went from uncontrolled to controlled, but we want to know even if the opposite case will happen so we need to change a bit our code for testing purposes setting our `setBothOn` fn to `undefined` when user tries to change the toggle by clicking on it:
```js
function App() {
  const [bothOn, setBothOn] = React.useState(false) // <- Back to normal
  const [timesClicked, setTimesClicked] = React.useState(0)

  function handleToggleChange(state, action) {
    if (action.type === actionTypes.toggle && timesClicked > 4) {
      return
    }
    setBothOn() // <- We set to undefined when onChage fires this
    setTimesClicked(c => c + 1)
  }
```
Now that we set up our test we're ready to handle this situation as well and see if we get our warning:
```js
React.useEffect( () => {
	warning(
		!(onIsControlled && !onWasControlled),
		'Changing from uncontrolled to controlled'
	);
	warning(
		!(!onIsControlled && onWasControlled),
		'Changing from controlled to uncontrolled'
	);
}, [onIsControlled, onWasControlled])
```
By adding the second `warning` we are able to display a message even if the component will pass from controlled to uncontrolled.

### 3. 💯 extract warnings to a custom hook
This is an usual pattern, when we see something that could be useful somewhere else is better to make a custom Hook out of it so we get the logic we created earlier and create `useControlledSwitchWarning` and `useOnChangeReadOnlyWarning`. 

```js
function useControlledSwitchWarning( controlPropValue, controlPropName, componentName ){
	const isControlled = controlPropValue != null;
	const { current: wasControlled } = React.useRef(isControlled);
	React.useEffect( () => {
		warning(
			!(isControlled && !wasControlled),
			`Changing \`${componentName}\` from uncontrolled to controlled. Check \`${controlPropName}\` prop.`
		);
		warning(
			!(!isControlled && wasControlled),
			`Changing \`${componentName}\` from controlled to uncontrolled. Check \`${controlPropName}\` prop.`
		);
	}, [isControlled, wasControlled, componentName, controlPropName])
}
```
As you can see this is pretty straightforward, we changed some variable names just to make the logic more general and we now accept some arguments while previously we used 'em within the component.

Now the `useOnChangeReadOnlyWarning` seems more complicated but only because we use many variables inside our string, otherwise the logic is pretty simple.
```
function useOnChangeReadOnlyWarning(
  controlPropValue,
  controlPropName,
  componentName,
  hasOnChange,
  readOnly,
  readOnlyProp,
  initialValueProp,
  onChangeProp,
) {
  const isControlled = controlPropValue != null
  React.useEffect(() => {
    warning(
      !(!hasOnChange && isControlled && !readOnly),
      `A \`${controlPropName}\` prop was provided to \`${componentName}\` without an \`${onChangeProp}\` handler. This will result in a read-only \`${controlPropName}\` value. If you want it to be mutable, use \`${initialValueProp}\`. Otherwise, set either \`${onChangeProp}\` or \`${readOnlyProp}\`.`,
    )
  }, [
    componentName,
    controlPropName,
    isControlled,
    hasOnChange,
    readOnly,
    onChangeProp,
    initialValueProp,
    readOnlyProp,
  ])
}
```
### 4. 💯 don’t warn in production
One of the best thing is to warn just the developer and not the users of the app! This is simple as add a condition:
```js
if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production') {
	// eslint-disable-next-line react-hooks/rules-of-hooks
	useControlledSwitchWarning(controlledOn, 'on', 'useToggle')
	// eslint-disable-next-line react-hooks/rules-of-hooks
	useOnChangeReadOnlyWarning(
		controlledOn,
		'on',
		'useToggle',
		Boolean(onChange),
		readOnly,
		'readOnly',
		'initialOn',
		'onChange',
	)
}
```
In here we use some comments for ESLint that will warn use that we are braking a rule of the hooks, do not conditionally fire them, but in this case we can just ignore because `process.env.NODE_ENV` will not change for the entire lifecycle of our application.