Authenticate a user is a pretty complex field filled with security concerns, for this reason most of the time the advice is to use an external service that is specialized to do it.

Some of my personal favorite are [Auth0](https://auth0.com) or the recent [Supabase](https://supabase.com).

Beside the external services you can use pretty much the logic will be always be the same:
1. you connect your app with the auth service (internal or external does not matter)
2. the auth service will expose some methods for login, register, logout and get the current token (this will check if user is already logged in or not)
3. based on the response you'll be able to understand if the user is logged in or not and render the appropriate part of the application

In general terms you want to build your application with a public version (the one seen from unauthenticated users) and a private one that will be accessible only to users that are able to login.

In React you want to store the information about the user in [[React.useState()|useState]] so you will be able to use this data for the entire lifecycle of your app.
# Exercise 
The first part of the exercise is pretty basic, you have to understand which props `AuthenticatedApp` and `UnauthenticatedApp` are looking for in order to pass to them the right information.

Let's start analyzing the `UnauthenticatedApp` first since will be the first that we see:
```js
function UnauthenticatedApp({login, register}) {
```
In this case all that our component is looking for are the functions that it need to use in order to login or register the user that wants to get access to the app.

Our Auth Provider already give use those and we just need to handle them in an `async` way in order to populate also the state of our `App` component:
```jsx
// Hidden previous not related `import`
import * as auth from 'auth-provider'

function App() {
  const [ user, setUser ] = React.useState(null);
  const login = form => auth.login(form).then(u => setUser(u))
  const register = form => auth.register(form).then(u => setUser(u))

  return <UnauthenticatedApp login={login} register={register} />
}
```
As already described here I am using `useState` to store the information about the user once we get the response back from the server with `then`.

Beside it I am creating the `login` and `register` fn that leverage the `auth.login` and `auth.register` method exposed from the Auth Provider. You **do not need to know the internals**, your Auth Provider is handling this part, all that is useful to you to know is that `auth.login` and `auth.register` are async fns and that you can use the returned value to set up your local state.

Now that `UnauthenticatedApp` is connected to the proper fns, the ones that will be fired when user clicks on the specific button, it's time to show the `AuthenticatedApp` in case our `user` is different from `null`, this happen when `login` or `register` complete their request and pass the response to `setUser`.

```jsx
function App() {
  // Hidden previous part...

  return user ? (
		<AuthenticatedApp />
	 ) : (
	 	<UnauthenticatedApp login={login} register={register} />
	 );
}
```

But if you try to login/register into your app you get an error. That's because `AuthenticatedApp` relies on some props **that we are not passing**. 

Checking the source code we discover that `AuthenticatedApp` is looking for a `user` and a `logout` prop.
```js
function AuthenticatedApp({user, logout}) {
```
Actually this make sense because, once rendered, we need to allow user to logout but more importantly we need to access the information stored in `user` in order to give access and personalize the App based on his capabilities.

So now we need to leverage a new method from our Auth Provider in order to allow our app to call a fn that will logout our user. This method is called `auth.logout`.

```jsx

function App() {
  //Hidded prev part...
  const logout = () => {
	auth.logout();
	setUser(null);
  }

  return user ? (
		<AuthenticatedApp user={user} logout={logout} />
	 ) : (
	 	<UnauthenticatedApp login={login} register={register} />
	 );
}
```
An interesting part of our `logout` fn is that on top of calling `auth.logout` we also set the user to `null`.
## Extra Credit
### 1. 💯 Load the user's data on page load
Here we need to check if the user is already logged in when the page is loaded, in order to do this we need to check if `token` is present. We can leverage the `getToken` method in `auth-provider` and use it in an `async` fn defined outside of our component logic.

At the same time we want to return our user with the needed information if the `token` is present, let's see first the structure of the `getUser` fn

```js
async function getUser(){
	let user = null

	const token = await auth.getToken();

	if(token){
		const data = await client('me', {token});
		user = data.user
	}

	return user;
}
```

If we have a `token` it's time to ask for the information of our user, here we can do with the `client` fn that is defined in `utils/api-client` and originally is defined like so:
```js
function client(endpoint, customConfig = {}) {
  const config = {
    method: 'GET',
    ...customConfig,
  }
  // Return code...
```
Since now we pass the `token` to it we need to destructure it from the `customConfig` obj in order to use it inside our `Authorization` header:
```js
function client(endpoint, {token, ...customConfig} = {}) {
  const config = {
    method: 'GET',
		headers:{
			Authorization: token ? `Bearer ${token}` : undefined,
		},
    ...customConfig,
  }
  // Return code...
```
This is not enough though because in case our user is passing a custom `headers` to the request it will get overridden by the logic we wrote to pass the `token`. In order to allow the user to override the `headers` we need a last change in the `client` fn:
```js
function client(endpoint, {token, headers: customHeaders, ...customConfig} = {}) {
  const config = {
    method: 'GET',
		headers:{
			Authorization: token ? `Bearer ${token}` : undefined,
			...customHeaders,
		},
    ...customConfig,
  }
  // Return code...
```
Here we go, now the `client` fn is able to handle the `token`, can set the `Authorization` header **and** allows our end user to set up a custom `headers`.

Now that we have the ability to know if user is logged in or not it's time to make use of the `getUser` fn inside our component, to do so we handle the logic inside `useEffect` hook the first time our component gets rendered:
```jsx
function App() {
  const [user, setUser] = React.useState(null)

	React.useEffect(() => {
		getUser().then( u => setUser(u))
	}, [])
```
And now, even if user refresh the page, he is able to *auto-login* inside our app!
### 2. 💯 Use `useAsync`
Inside the `utils/hooks.js` we have a `useAsync` custom hook ready to handle all async calls and giving us some *'ready to use'* state to handle the loading of our app.

We also have a `FullPageSpinner` component in `components/lib` that we can use while loading our page.

So the first thing we can do is to import both of them, I also include the `colors` styles to change the color of the error message in case we have one.
```js
// other imports
import * as colors from './styles/colors'
import {useAsync} from './utils/hooks'
import {FullPageSpinner} from './components/lib'
```
Now that we have all that we need to improve our app it's time to make it to work. The first thing that we will do is to stop to handle the `user` state inside our component to delegate this part to the `useAsync` custom hook:
```js
const {
	data: user, 
	error, 
	isLoading, 
	isIdle, 
	isError, 
	isSuccess, 
	run, 
	setData
} = useAsync();
```
We renamed the standard `data` to `user` to easily work with it and destructured all the other relevant values `useAsync` are returning. Now that we have our `run` fn we can make use of it inside our `useEffect`:
```js
React.useEffect(() => {
	run(getUser())
}, [run])
```
`run` will take care of setting up the `data` for use so no need to handle it in a `then` call.

Next we want to update our `login`, `register` and `logout` fns to use `useAsync`:
```js
const login = form => auth.login(form).then(user => setData(user))
const register = form => auth.register(form).then(user => setData(user))
const logout = () => {
	auth.logout()
	setData(null)
}
```
If you save everything works as before, we see the login/register screen and if the user is logged in we will render the `AuthenticatedApp` component with the right information.

But we did all of the above because **we wanted to avoid** this behavior!

So the first thing we need to do is to check if `isLoading` or `isIdle` are `true` and show `FullPageSpinner` in case they are:
```js
if( isLoading || isIdle ){
	return <FullPageSpinner />
}
```

Since we have `isError` and `error` in case something goes bananas, we can make use of those as well:
```js
if( isError ){
	return (
		<div
			css={{
				color: colors.danger,
				height: '100vh',
				display: 'flex',
				flexDirection: 'column',
				justifyContent: 'center',
				alignItems: 'center'
			}}
		>
			<p>There's a problem. Try refresh the app.</p>
			<pre>{error.message}</pre>
		</div>
	)
}
```
Now that we handle the edge cases we can show the appropriate component if `isSuccess` is `true`:
```js
if(isSuccess){
	return user ? (
		<AuthenticatedApp user={user} logout={logout} />
	) : (
		<UnauthenticatedApp login={login} register={register} />
	)
}
```
Here you go, now our app shows a spinner while it is still figuring out if the user is logged in or not.
### 3. 💯 automatically logout on 401
In this exercise you have to work in `api-client` file in order to handle the `response` of your query to `window.fetch`. So the first thing to do is to check if the status is `401`:
```js
function client(
	endpoint, 
	{token, headers: customHeaders, ...customConfig} = {}
) {
  // Config

  return window.fetch(`${apiURL}/${endpoint}`, config)
		.then(async response => {
			if( response.status === 401 ){
				// Handle unauthorize
			}

			// Standard response
```
Now that we are able to handle the case our user is not authorized to do something we can bring in the `logout` fn:
```js
import * as auth from 'auth-provider'
```
With the `auth` obj, that contains `logout`, we can call it from withing our logic:
```js
function client(
	endpoint, 
	{token, headers: customHeaders, ...customConfig} = {}
) {
  // Config

  return window.fetch(`${apiURL}/${endpoint}`, config)
		.then(async response => {
			if( response.status === 401 ){
				await auth.logout();
			}

			// Standard response
```
But logout the user could be not enough so we will force a page refresh **and** `reject` the Promise just in case:
```js
function client(
	endpoint, 
	{token, headers: customHeaders, ...customConfig} = {}
) {
  // Config

  return window.fetch(`${apiURL}/${endpoint}`, config)
		.then(async response => {
			if( response.status === 401 ){
				await auth.logout();
				// Trigger a full page refresh to update our app
				window.location.assign( window.location );
				// Reject just in case
				return Promise.reject({message: 'Prease re-authenticate'})
			}

			// Standard response
```
### 4. 💯 Support posting data
Since we have. all the client code already set up making our calls ready to send data as well is pretty easy. Before to see how to send data with code we need to understand what makes this kind of calls different:
* we want to send new values so we need to pass a `data` obj
* when the user sends `data` the method that we use is not `GET` but it is `POST`
* the `config` object needs also to have a `body` property where we store the serialized data that user is sending
* we also need to add a new `Content-Type` header to specify the kind of data we are sending

To make all this edits we have to change how our `client` fn is declared so our end user can pass this kind of information. To better see how we change this fn I'll follow the steps written above to make easy to understand what and where we apply those.

**Pass the `data`**
```js
function client(
	endpoint, 
	{data, token, headers: customHeaders, ...customConfig} = {}
) {
```
The only change we made here is to destructure the `data` from the option obj that we created to customize the `client` fn.

**If `data` id present change `GET` to `POST`**
```js
function client(
	...
) {
  const config = {
    method: data ? 'POST' : 'GET',
```
**Pass a `body` to the `config` obj of our `fetch`**
```js
function client(
	...
) {
  const config = {
    ...
	body: data ? JSON.stringify(data) : undefined,
```
**Set the `Content-Type` header**
```js
function client(
	...
) {
  const config = {
	...
	headers:{
		Authorization: token ? `Bearer ${token}` : undefined,
		'Content-Type': data ? 'application/json' : undefined,
		...customHeaders,
	},
```
One important thing to notice about this approach is that user is still able to override some part of our logic without the need to write all of it.