Routing is an important part of every application since allow us to take the *'address'* (the URL) of a resource and share it with anyone.

In a normal website, build with HTML, CSS and other Server-Side technologies most of the time the routes are defined with the folder structure but when you work with [[SPA]], like in React, you need to have some sort of implementation that will allow you to create routes in the client.

In this exercise we use the *de-facto* library that mostly anyone is using inside a React app: [React Router](https://reacttraining.com/react-router).

The logic of this is pretty simple and powerful at the same time.

The first thing that you need to have to make it work is a `Router`, a component that will wrap the application where we want to handle the routing. So the first thing we need to do is to wrap the entire app with the imported `Router`:
```js
// Other imports
import { Router } from 'react-router-dom'

function App(){
	return (
		<div>
			<h1>Your app</h1>
		</div>
	)
}

function AppWithRouter() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <App />
    </Router>
  )
}

ReactDOM.render(<AppWithRouter />, document.getElementById('app'))
```

After we have put the `Router` in place we can start declaring the routes that we want to handle and tell to React Router which component we want to render in case of a `Route` match. Simply put we need to create something like the following inside our wrapped component:
```js
// Other imports
import { Router } from 'react-router-dom'

function App(){
	return (
		<div>
			<h1>Your app</h1>
			<Routes>
				<Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
				<Route path="/about" element={<About />} />
				<Route path="/dog/:dogId" element={<Dog />} />
				<Route path="*" element={<YouLost />} />
			</Routes>
		</div>
	)
}

function AppWithRouter() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <App />
    </Router>
  )
}

ReactDOM.render(<AppWithRouter />, document.getElementById('app'))
```
We wrap all our `Route` components inside a `Routes` wrapper, this allow React Router to do it's magic.

Each `Route` has two important props:
* `path` - this identifies the relative path that we need to match
* `element` - this will be the component that our app will render in care the `path` is matched

> As you can see `path` can be build even in a special way, passing `:` means that we want to use a variable and this makes it a dynamic route. We'll discover more the use of it in the exercise part.

Now that you defined your routes it's time **to reach them**. A standard `a` does not make any sense here because you're not routing files and the browser will go nuts. The solution is to use the `Link` component that React Router is providing to you. Once imported in your component, generally in your `Nav`, you're user will be able to see the component that you specified in the `element` prop of `Route`.
```js
import { Link } from 'react-router-dom'

function Nav(){
	return <Link to='/'>Go to home</Link>
}
```
> Please not that in a `Link` you have to use the `to` prop instead of the `href` attribute of the standard `a` element.

# Exercise
So our focus in this lesson is to implement the routing inside our application. We just need to wrap the `AuthenticatedApp` component because we do not care to add the routing to the not authenticated part of our app since it will have no routes.

Open your `app.js` and change it like the following:
```js
// Other imports...
import { BrowserRouter as Router } from 'react-router-dom'

function App(){
	// Other code...
	if (isSuccess) {
		const props = {user, login, register, logout}
		return user ? (
				<Router>
					<AuthenticatedApp {...props} />
				</Router>
		) : (
		  <UnauthenticatedApp {...props} />
		)
	}
}
```
> Remember we are using `useAsync` from previous lesson that provide as, among others, the `isSuccess` boolean.

Now that we set up the `Router` it's time to define the `Routes` for our `AuthenticatedApp`:
```js
// Other imports...
import { Routes, Route, Link } from 'react-router-dom'
import { DiscoverBooksScreen } from './screens/discover'
import { BookScreen } from './screens/book'
import { NotFoundScreen } from './screens/not-found'

function AuthenticatedApp( { user, logout } ){
	<>
		// Other code...
		<main>
			<AppRoutes user={user} />
		</main>
	</>
}

function AppRoutes({user}){
	return (
		<Routes>
			<Route path='/discover' element={ <DiscoverBooksScreen user={user} /> } />
			<Route path='/book/:bookId' element={ <BookScreen user={user} /> } />
			<Route path='*' element={ <NotFoundScreen /> } />
		</Routes>
	)
}
```
I've tried my best to simplify the code as much as possible, if you find it confusing have a look at the [source file](https://github.com/kentcdodds/bookshelf/blob/exercises/05-routing/src/authenticated-app.final.js).

To better handle the routes we create a new `AppRoutes` component that we define inside the same file. As you can see we also pass to it the `user` data so we can forward them inside the component that will use it based on the `path` that the user is browsing to. For example `DiscoverBooksScreen` and `BookScreen` use it, but not `NotFoundScreen`.

The `AuthenticatedApp` also uses the `Nav` component that I have hidden from previous code block. It usage is pretty simple, we create a `nav` and insert a `NavLink` that renders a `Link` that points to the `/discover` path.

Now that we have our basic routes it's time to start to work on the simplest component, the `NotFoundScreen`. In this one, that mostly represent a 404 page, the only thing that we have to do is to import a `Link` that will point to the `/discover` route that is behaving like the home of our app:
```js
// Other imports...
import { Link } from '../components/lib'

function NotFoundScreen() {
  return (
	  <div>
		Sorry... nothing here.
		<Link to='/discover'>Go home</Link>
	  </div>
  )
}

export {NotFoundScreen}
```
Next we can work on the `DiscoverBookScreen` but if you follow Kent's advice it will be better if you look into the `BookRow` component since is that one where the magic happen.

Inside it you have to implement a simple `Link` that will point to the single page for the book where user clicks, so all you have to do is to pass the `book.id` and change the `div` into a `Link`:
```js
// Other imports...
import { Link } from 'react-router-dom'

function BookRow({book}) {
  const {title, author, coverImageUrl} = book

  const id = `book-row-book-${book.id}`

  return (
    <div>
      <Link
        to={ `/book/${book.id}`}
      >
	  	// Other code...
      </Link>
    </div>
  )
}
```
Now you are able to create **dynamic routes** based on the book id and if you have a look above you soon discover that we already have a component that will render this: `BookScreen`.

Here is coming the fun part because we will use the dynamic part of our route, the `id` of the book, to render **specific information**:
```js
// Other imports...
import { useParams } from 'react-router-dom'

function BookScreen({user}){
	const params = useParams();
	const {bookId} = params;
	
	const {data, run} = useAsync()

    React.useEffect(() => {
		run(client(`books/${bookId}`, {token: user.token}))
	}, [run, bookId, user.token])
	
	// Other code...
}
```
Here you can see how we use the `:bookId` that we mention earlier when we were creating our `Routes`. Basically React Router is able to get the parameters we use in our path, with the `useParams` hook, and allow use to **use it** in our component. 

Have the `bookId` at our disposal help use with the `useAsync` custom hook and query for the right information stored in our database.
> Consider that you could pass the `bookId` as a prop of the component but since we use it to also generate the route it make a lot of sense to get its value from the parameter and have a cleaner component.
### 1. 💯 handle URL redirects
I am going to not write about this extra credit since it is already well explained in the instructions and also is not something that interests me much, I am sure that the day I'll need this kind of information I'll need to Google it 😂
### 2. 💯 add `useMatch` to highlight the active nav item
This has been a lot more interesting since we discovered a new hook that React Router gives us `useMatch` and also we get some new knowledge on Emotion as well.

The first thing needed to solve this exercise is to understand that the `useMatch` hook is able to tell use if the page we are on is matching with the path we provide to it:
```js
const match = useMatch('/some/path');
```
If I have the browser on `/some/path` the `match` value will be `true`.

So we want to add special styles to the `NavLink` that is currently active. TBH this confuses me because at first I asked myself *'Well `path` is dynamic, how can I pass it to `useMatch`?'*

Well the thing is easier than I thought, since `NavLink` it's just a wrapper for `Link` and we pass all the props to it I can simply leverage the presence of `props.to` to match my use case.
```js
function NavLink(props){
	const match = useMatch(props.to);
```
Now `match` will be `true` if the URL that we have open is the same of the our link, `false` otherwise.

This is even useful to customize our CSS.

Since we already have a `css` props that is passing some custom styles via Emotion, is good to know that in it we can also pass **an array of objects**, and now we use `match` to pass our customization or not.

```js
function NavLink(props) {
	const match = useMatch(props.to);
  return (
    <Link
      css={[{
        display: 'block',
        padding: '8px 15px 8px 10px',
        margin: '5px 0',
        width: '100%',
        height: '100%',
        color: colors.text,
        borderRadius: '2px',
        borderLeft: '5px solid transparent',
        ':hover': {
          color: colors.indigo,
          textDecoration: 'none',
          background: colors.gray10,
        },
      }, match ? 
			{
				borderLeft: `5px solid ${colors.indigo}`,
				background: colors.gray10,
				':hover': {
					background: colors.gray20,
				},
			} : null]}
```